[New] TimescaleDB on Kubernetes (#863)
timescale/docs: install/installation-kubernetes.md

# Install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes
You can install a TimescaleDB instance on any Kubernetes deployment.
Use the `timescaledb-single` Helm chart to deploy a highly-available TimescaleDB database, and `timescaledb-multinode` to deploy a multi-node distributed TimescaleDB database.
For more information about the components that are deployed with these charts, see 
[TimescaleDB on Kubernetes][timescaledb-k8s].
You can install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes deployed on:
* [AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service][aws-eks]
* [MicroK8s][microk8s-install]
* [minikube][minikube-install]

> Before you begin installing TimescaleDB on a Kubernetes deployment, make sure you have:
> * Installed [kubectl][kubectl-install]
> * Installed [Helm][helm-install]
> * Installed [Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-install]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin installing TimescaleDB on a Kubernetes deployment, make sure you have installed:
* [kubectl][kubectl-install]
* [Helm][helm-install]
* [Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-install]
```

> * (**Optional**) Created your own `.yaml` file if you want to use parameters other than those specified in the default `values.yaml`. You can name this file `myvalues.yaml` file. For details about the parameters you can set, see  the [Administrator Guide][admin-guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to, you can create your own `.yaml` file to use parameters other than those specified in the default `values.yaml`. You can name this file `myvalues.yaml` file. For details about the parameters you can set, see  the [Administrator Guide][admin-guide].
```

Plus, needs line breaks.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Install TimescaleDB using a Helm chart
You can install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes using a Helm chart with the default `values.yaml` file. 
When you use the default `values.yaml`, the user credentials are randomly generated during installation.

> When you then use the `helm upgrade` command, it does not rotate the credentials, because changing the database credentials would break the database. Instead, it continues to use the credentials generated during `helm install`.

Reviewer: line breaks

Author: incorporated.

This section provides instructions to deploy TimescaleDB using the `timescaledb-single` Helm chart.

<procedure>

### Installing TimescaleDB using a Helm chart
1.  Add the TimescaleDB Helm chart repository:
    ```bash
    helm repo add timescale 'https://charts.timescale.com'
    ```
1.  Verify that the repository is up to date:
    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
1.  Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart, by replacing `<my_name>` with a name of your choice:
    ```bash
    helm install <my_name> timescale/timescaledb-single
    ```
    If you created a `<myvalues.yaml>` file, use this command instead:
    ```bash
    helm install <my_name> -f <myvalues.yaml> charts/timescaledb-single
    ```

</procedure> 

## Connect to TimescaleDB
You can connect to TimescaleDB from an external IP address, or from within the cluster.

<procedure>

> ### Connecting to TimescaleDB using an External IP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connecting to TimescaleDB using an external IP
```

<highlight type="note">
If you configured the user credentials in the `my_values.yaml` file, you don't need to decode the passwords.
</highlight>

1. Get the name of the host to connect to:
    ```bash
    kubectl get service/my-release
    ```
1. Decode the `admin` user password `PGPASSWORD_ADMIN` that was generated during the Helm installation, by replacing `<my_name>` with the name that you provided during the installation:
    ```bash
    PGPASSWORD_ADMIN=$(kubectl get secret --namespace default <my_name>-credentials -o jsonpath="{.data.PATRONI_admin_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)
    ``` 

> 1. (**Optional**) Decode the super user password `PGPOSTGRESPASSWORD` that was generated during the Helm installation, by replacing `<my_name>` with the name that you provided during the installation:

Reviewer: I think in other places, I've used two asterisks for an optional step, but no parentheses. Could be worth double checking, though.

Author: checked that it was **OPTIONAL**  and updated accordingly.

    ```bash

>     PGPASSWORD_POSTGRES=$(kubectl get secret --namespace default <my_name>-credentials -o jsonpath="{.data.PATRONI_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)

Reviewer: Add line breaks to these long commands

    ```
1. Connect with psql as `admin` user, by replacing `<my_name>` with the name that you provided during the installation:
    ```bash
    kubectl run -i --tty --rm psql --image=postgres \
      --env "PGPASSWORD=$PGPASSWORD_ADMIN" \
      --command -- psql -U admin \
      -h <my_name>.default.svc.cluster.local postgres
    ```
    
</procedure>

<procedure>

> ### Connecting to TimescaleDB from inside the Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connecting to TimescaleDB from inside the cluster
```

1. Get the Pod on which TimescaleDB is installed:
   ```bash
    MASTERPOD="$(kubectl get pod -o name --namespace default -l release=test,role=master)"
    ```
1. Run `psql` inside the Pod containing the primary:
    ```bash
    kubectl exec -i --tty --namespace default ${MASTERPOD} -- psql -U postgres
    ```

</procedure>

<procedure>

> ### Create a Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a database
```

1.  At the prompt, create an empty database. For example, to create a database
    called `tsdb`:
    ```sql
    CREATE database tsdb;
    ```
1.  Connect to the database you created:
    ```sql
    \c tsdb
    ```
1. Verify that the TimescaleDB extension is installed by using the `\dx`
command at the command prompt. It looks like this:
```sql
tsdb=# \dx

                                      List of installed extensions
    Name     | Version |   Schema   |                            Description                            
-------------+---------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------
 plpgsql     | 1.0     | pg_catalog | PL/pgSQL procedural language
 timescaledb | 2.1.1   | public     | Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
(2 rows)

(END)
```

</procedure>

> ## Cleanup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Clean up
```

To remove the spawned Pods:
```bash
helm delete my-release
```

> Some items such as Persistent Volume Claims (PVC) and S3 backups are not removed immediately. For more information about purging these items, see the [Administrator Guide][admin-guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some items such as persistent volume claims (PVC) and S3 backups are not removed immediately. For more information about purging these items, see the [Administrator Guide][admin-guide].
```

# Install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes
You can install a TimescaleDB instance on any Kubernetes deployment. Use the
`timescaledb-single` Helm chart to deploy a highly-available TimescaleDB
database, and `timescaledb-multinode` to deploy a multi-node distributed
TimescaleDB database. For more information about the components that are
deployed with these charts, see [TimescaleDB on Kubernetes][timescaledb-k8s].
You can install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes deployed on:
* [AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service][aws-eks]
* [MicroK8s][microk8s-install]
* [minikube][minikube-install]

Before you begin installing TimescaleDB on a Kubernetes deployment, make sure
you have installed:
* [kubectl][kubectl-install]
* [Helm][helm-install]
* [Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-install]

> If you want to, you can create your own `.yaml` file to use parameters other

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you want to, you can create your own `.yaml` file to use parameters other
```

# Install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes

> You can install TimescaleDB instance on any Kubernetes deployment alongside other cloud native-technologies. Use `timescaledb-single` chart to deploy a highly-available TimescaleDB database, and `timescaledb-multinode` to deploy a multi-node distributed TimescaleDB database. You can install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes deployed on:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can install a TimescaleDB instance on any Kubernetes deployment. Use the `timescaledb-single` Helm chart to deploy a highly-available TimescaleDB database, and `timescaledb-multinode` to deploy a multi-node distributed TimescaleDB database. You can install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes deployed on:
```

> * AWS EKS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service
```

* MicroK8s

> * minikube. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* minikube
```

<highlight type="important">
Before you begin installing TimescaleDB, make sure you have installed:
* kubectl
* Helm
* Kubernetes Cluster
</highlight>

> ### Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart
```

Before you install the TimescaleDB Helm chart, you need to configure these
settings in the `values.yaml` configuration file:
*   Credentials for the superuser, admin, and other users
*   TLS Certificates
*   **Optional:** `pgbackrest` [configuration][timescale-backups]

<highlight type="note">
If you do not configure the user credentials before you start, they are randomly
generated. When this happens, the `helm upgrade` command does not rotate the
credentials, to prevent breaking the database by changing the database
credentials instead it uses the same credentials that are generated during the
`helm install`.
</highlight>

<procedure>

> #### Installing the TimescaleDB Helm chart

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Installing the TimescaleDB Helm chart
```

1.  Add the TimescaleDB Helm chart repository:
    ```bash
    helm repo add timescale 'https://charts.timescale.com'
    ```
1.  Check that the repository is up to date:
    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
1.  Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart, using a release name of your choice:
    ```bash
    helm install <MY_RELEASE> timescale/timescaledb-single
    ```

</procedure>

You can provide arguments to the `helm install` command using this format:
`--set key=value[,key=value]`. For example, to install the  chart with backups
enabled, use this command:
```bash

> helm install my-release timescale/timescaledb-single --set backup.enabled=true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm install <MY_RELEASE> timescale/timescaledb-single --set backup.enabled=true
```

```

> Alternatively, you can provide a YAML file that includes parameters for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can provide a `.yaml` file that includes parameters for
```

installing the chart, like this:
```bash

> helm install my-release -f myvalues.yaml timescale/timescaledb-single

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm install <MY_RELEASE> -f myvalues.yaml timescale/timescaledb-single
```

# Install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes
You can install a TimescaleDB instance on any Kubernetes deployment. Use the `timescaledb-single` Helm chart to deploy a highly-available TimescaleDB database, and `timescaledb-multinode` to deploy a multi-node distributed TimescaleDB database. You can install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes deployed on:
* [AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service][aws-eks]
* [MicroK8s][microk8s-install]
* [minikube][minikube-install]

<highlight type="important">
Before you begin installing TimescaleDB on a Kubernetes deployment, make sure you have installed:

* [kubectl][kubectl-install]
* [Helm][helm-install]
* [Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-install]

</highlight>

> ## Install the TimescaleDB using Helm chart

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Install TimescaleDB using a Helm chart
```

* [kubectl][kubectl-install]
* [Helm][helm-install]
* [Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-install]

> * (**Optional**) Create a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters that are provided while installing the chart. For example, you can create a new `myvalues.yaml` file. For details about the parameters you can set, see  the [Administrator Guide][admin-guide].

Reviewer 2: Remove `installed` from line above (I can't edit it through GH suggestions because it's too far away from the changed section) and:

```suggestion
* Installed [kubectl][kubectl-install]
* Installed [Helm][helm-install]
* Installed [Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-install]
* (**Optional**) Created your own `.yaml` file if you want to use parameters other than those specified in the default `values.yaml`. You can name this file `myvalues.yaml`. For details about the parameters you can set, see  the [Administrator Guide][admin-guide].
```

Author: @charislam incorporated the changes you suggested.

</highlight>

## Install TimescaleDB using a Helm chart

> You can install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes using a Helm chart with the default `values.yaml`. The user credentials are randomly generated during the installation with the default `values.yaml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes using a Helm chart with the default `values.yaml`. 
When you use the default `values.yaml`, the user credentials are randomly generated during installation.
```

> When you use the `helm upgrade` command it does not rotate the credentials, to prevent breaking the database by changing the database credentials instead it uses the same credentials that are generated during the `helm install`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you then use the `helm upgrade` command, it does not rotate the credentials, because changing the database credentials would break the database. Instead, it continues to use the credentials generated during `helm install`.
```

> The following section provides instructions to deploy TimescaleDB using `timescaldb-single` helm chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following section provides instructions to deploy TimescaleDB using the `timescaledb-single` Helm chart.
```

<procedure>

> ### Installing the TimescaleDB using Helm chart

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Installing TimescaleDB using a Helm chart
```

1.  Add the TimescaleDB Helm chart repository:
    ```bash
    helm repo add timescale 'https://charts.timescale.com'
    ```
1.  Verify that the repository is up to date:
    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
1.  Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart, by replacing `<MY_NAME>` with a name of your choice:
    ```bash
    helm install <MY_NAME> timescale/timescaledb-single
    ```

</procedure>

You can provide arguments to the `helm install` command. For example, to install the  chart with backups
enabled, use this command:
```bash
helm install <MY_NAME> timescale/timescaledb-single --set backup.enabled=true
```

Alternatively, you can provide a `myvalues.yaml` file that includes parameters for
installing the chart:
```bash
helm install <MY_NAME> -f myvalues.yaml timescale/timescaledb-single
```

## Where to next

> Now that you have your first TimescaleDB database up and running, you can check
> out the [TimescaleDB][tsdb-docs] section in our documentation, and find out what
> you can do with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have your first TimescaleDB database up and running, see
the [TimescaleDB][tsdb-docs] section in our documentation to learn what
you can do with it.
```

> If you want to work through some tutorials to help you get up and running with
> TimescaleDB and time-series data, check out our [tutorials][tutorials] section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To work through some tutorials that help you get started with
TimescaleDB and time-series data, check out our [tutorials][tutorials] section.
```

> You can always [contact us][contact] if you need help working something out, or
> if you want to have a chat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get help or chat with the Timescale team, [contact us][contact].
```

    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
1.  Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart, by replacing `<my_name>` with a name of your choice:
    ```bash
    helm install <my_name> timescale/timescaledb-single
    ```
    (**Optional**) If you created a `<myvalues.yaml>` file, then use:
    ```bash
    helm install <my_name> -f <myvalues.yaml> charts/timescaledb-single
    ```

</procedure> 

## Connect to TimescaleDB
You can connect to TimescaleDB using an External IP or from within the cluster.

<procedure>

### Connecting to TimescaleDB using an External IP

<highlight type="note">

> If you configured the user credentials in the `my_values.yaml` file, then you dont have to decode the passwords.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you configured the user credentials in the `my_values.yaml` file, you don't need to decode the passwords.
```

</highlight>

> 1. Get the name of the host to connect to using:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Get the name of the host to connect to:
```

    ```console
    kubectl get service/my-release
    ```

> 1. Decode the `admin` user password `PGPASSWORD_ADMIN` that was generated during the helm installation, by replacing `<my_name>` with the name that you provided during the installation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Decode the `admin` user password `PGPASSWORD_ADMIN` that was generated during the Helm installation, by replacing `<my_name>` with the name that you provided during the installation:
```

    ```console
    PGPASSWORD_ADMIN=$(kubectl get secret --namespace default <my_name>-credentials -o jsonpath="{.data.PATRONI_admin_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)
    ``` 

> 1. (**Optional**) Decode the super user password `PGPOSTGRESPASSWORD` that was generated during the helm installation, by replacing `<my_name>` with the name that you provided during the installation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. (**Optional**) Decode the super user password `PGPOSTGRESPASSWORD` that was generated during the Helm installation, by replacing `<my_name>` with the name that you provided during the installation:
```

1. Get the Pod on which TimescaleDB is installed:
   ```console
    MASTERPOD="$(kubectl get pod -o name --namespace default -l release=test,role=master)"
    ```

1. Run `psql` inside the Pod containing the primary:
    ```console
    kubectl exec -i --tty --namespace default ${MASTERPOD} -- psql -U postgres
    ```

</procedure>

### Create a Database

1.  At the prompt, create an empty database. For example, to create a database
    called `tsdb`:
    ```sql
    CREATE database tsdb;
    ```
1.  Connect to the database you created:
    ```sql
    \c tsdb
    ```
1. Verify that the TimescaleDB extension is installed by using the `\dx`
command at the command prompt. It looks like this:
```sql
tsdb=# \dx

                                      List of installed extensions
    Name     | Version |   Schema   |                            Description                            
-------------+---------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------
 plpgsql     | 1.0     | pg_catalog | PL/pgSQL procedural language
 timescaledb | 2.1.1   | public     | Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
(2 rows)

(END)
```

## Cleanup

> To remove the spawned pods you can run a simple

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To remove the spawned pods, run:
```

```console
helm delete my-release
```

> Some items such as pvc's and S3 backups are not removed immediately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some items such as Persistent Volume Claims and S3 backups are not removed immediately.
```
